zoom q3 HD seems at first glance like an
ideal tool for capturing solo acoustic
guitar performances the problem comes in
for most of us because the framing
distance when we want to see a picture
of the whole guitar and maybe our head
both our hands the cameras a little bit
farther away than it needs to be for
optimal sound as a result we get too
much room sound and it cuts down the
impact of it the guitar and we want to
hear the guitar ideally we'd use some
kind of a wide-angle lens to improve
this situation but the zoom q3 HD is
doesn't have replaceable lenses it's a
little plastic lens camera basically the
same as a cell phone camera I remembered
when I thought about that that there's a
little stick-on wide-angle lens that you
can get for cell phones so I got my
hands on one I got it from a company
called photojojo photojojo calm there
are also things like it available on
eBay and I'm sure other places as well
but what it is is a little kit that has
a ring with that's a magnet and has
sticky stuff on one side and you stick
that on the little glass on the little
plastic cover over your lens and then
you stick on this wide angle lens and
you have what you're looking at now
let's start off by doing a little guitar
work it still doesn't hurt too
to get a little tricky with the angles
to get as much guitar as you can into
the shot and still get the microphones
close so we've got you know we managed
to get inside the arms distance which
from the guitar must be just 12 to 18
inches that kind of a distance gives us
the sound something like this
you
hopefully that came out okay an old
Hawaiian slack key piece called yellow
ginger lang now you might wonder what
would happen without the lens how close
are we really so if I just take the long
lens off pop it off of its little magnet
attachment that's this the image that
the q3 HD would see at this distance the
other thing you might notice when I took
the lens off as the picture got brighter
I'm not sure how fast the q3 HD corrects
for that but this little lens which only
cost twenty bucks is worth what it costs
it's not a miracle of optics it cuts
down on the light that gets through and
it also has some various kinds of
distortion as well as what's known as
vignette eng i'm going to put the lens
back on it just sticks on with this
little magnet that you glue to your
camera now since i'm not back behind the
camera to tweak it i imagine that the
corners at least a couple of them maybe
all four of them are kind of dark this
is called vignette eng and it happens
when the lens doesn't match the sensor
properly and we're just using something
that we got off the internet after all
so we're not surprised that it doesn't
work perfectly but the the vignette
ingos away when we take the lens off
notice also that the picture gets
brighter or the picture gets more clear
perhaps the camera compensates for the
lack of light when this lens is on by
raising the ISO by raising the game the
digital sensitivity but that usually
results in an uglier picture so usually
things will look better either brighter
or clear or both with the lens off
they'll just be too close we want them
farther away well I'm not sure if this
is really going to be a solution that
I'm going to use a lot I'm not sure if
it's a good solution for you but it's
something to think about its twenty
dollars to see if moving the camera
closer gives you the same
you're looking for and lets you frame
the shot the way you want or perhaps the
issues with the vignette II and the
image quality and the kind of whoo
kiness of gluing a magnet to your camera
what caused you to pass on this unit
anyway I hope you found the information
useful
Oh
I
please visit us at
you